#The Lonely Tower - 1

Josh Galler

A dense fog choked the road leading to the Tower. It seemed to emanate from nowhere, filling the air just beyond the threshold of the Village. Sulphurous and stifling, every breath was made a chore by the acrid air. Yet the Warrior had trained for this day. It was his duty. His destiny. He would face the Guardian. He would finally free them all from this prison.
 
The Guardian stood motionless, like a statue hewn from dark granite, enveloped in thick overlapping armour plates that twisted around his body like an insect carapace. Simply looking upon it made the hairs on his arms rise and his skin crawl, though the Warrior found himself puzzling over why. It wasn’t simply the fear of battle and the prospect of death. He’d made his peace with his destiny already. The Guardian’s silhouette was unnaturally organic, familiar, yet alien. With a deep breath the Warrior forced the thought from his mind. This was of no consequence to him now. He would find the Guardian’s weak point and cut him down once and for all. Adjusting the strap that held his longsword against his leather-clad shoulder, the Warrior pressed forward, marching on towards that Tower on the Hill. 

The world seemed to oppose the Warrior with each step forward. An icy wind nipped at his skin, stinging as if flecked with shards of glass. Voices nagged at him, whispering in his ears on the wind. They urged him to turn back, pleaded with him to go home, crying that only death awaited him. Death comes to us all, he thought, trying to silence his mind. Illusions, apparitions, that is all they were. The Warlock was afraid, thought him feeble minded and easily frightened. Men of the Village were cut from hardy stuff. None would falter from such paltry attempts at intimidation. Squinting through the fog, he could catch glimpses of the Guardian, still and unmoving. That man, that thing, ever present, perpetually standing watch over the Tower, a fate like that gave his heart pause. 

Generations before him had tried and failed to fell the Guardian. The Warrior's time had come. More than duty, an intrinsic force pulled him to face his destiny. In time, his son would feel the tug of the same strings, his heart knew that to be true. Cursed sons, each of them. Forced to walk the path laid before them. Like a moth to a flame, he trudged onward. 

A mere hundred paces lay between the Warrior and the Tower, a steep dirt path that snaked up towards the slate grey structure. The Guardian stood in front of a squat wooden door, nearly obscuring it completely. The wood was weathered, and the door handle was blistered with corrosion. As the Warrior neared, a gentle rain began to bite at his skin. Tiny droplets assailed him with their chilly teeth, growing larger with each step until he was wading through a torrent of icy fangs. And yet, there was no turning back. 

Each step was a battle against the ground, slick with mud and rivulets of water threatening to wash his footing away. The earth gave way and the Warrior hit the ground, the arm that braced for impact slapping the muddy path with a wet splatter. Indeed, the Guardian was not the only thing defending the Warlock. He had charmed the very earth into his defence! Still, he was too close to give up. The abomination would be cut down and he would drive his blade through the Warlock’s heart. They would be free. 

At last, the Warrior crested the hill. His steel breastplate was coated in mud, the rain cutting new shimmering rivers through the muck as it streamed down in sheets. Unclipping the belt strapped across his chest, the Warrior swung his sword out of its sheath, letting the leather fall, unneeded.  He could no longer feel the rain, despite its best efforts to harangue him and break his focus. Every part of him was numb, tingling on the edge of pain as his nerves screamed a desperate warning. The rest of the world seemed to pull away as his gaze locked onto the Guardian. 

Clad in full plate armour that looked as if it had been cut from a rock face rather than forged, the Guardian stood motionless, the tip of its great sword plunged into the ground before its feet. Gauntleted hands rested on the pommel, folded so neatly the Warrior’s eyes lingered. He studied the fingers, interlaced over the unadorned sword hilt. He was expecting a monster, a brutish facsimile of a man. This was so strangely human. It stood there as if it had been waiting patiently just for him. And perhaps it had been. 

The Warrior took one step forward and the world seemed to shift. Those gently folded hands moved swiftly, gripping the hilt of the great sword and gracefully pulling it free of the ground, barely a trace of dirt following it as the tip arced through the air. The creature moved more quickly than its appearance would suggest, adopting a ready stance the Warrior recognized from his early training. The Warrior flinched, stepping halfway into a defensive position, entirely on instinct. He was nowhere near close enough to be within striking distance but the speed with which the Guardian had moved had set the hairs on the back of his neck stiff. What could prepare a man to face something not of the corporeal world?

As he readied his weapon, adopting a stance prepared to counter most heavy swings, the Warrior’s senses were flooded. His muscles screamed with electricity. His ears felt the reverberation of each raindrop against his armour. His eyes honed in on the small gaps between the plates of the Guardian’s armour. That was where he needed to strike. If he could get through the armour … no manner of creature could survive.

”Face me!” The Guardian howled with a voice like the echo of metal scraping upon stone. The Warrior did not take the bait. To charge in, lunge forward with an attack, would leave him wide open. Their battle would be over before it had even begun. He waited, holding his stance. It was comfortable, balanced. Poised to retort at any moment without the strain of a spring waiting to be released. He’d let the Guardian come to him. 

It seemed this creature was not a patient sort. Letting out a wail that could knock a gull from the sky, the Guardian charged forward. With the momentum of its charge, it brought that great sword around, chopping overhead like a woodsman splitting a log. The Warrior sidestepped neatly and plunged his sword through the gap between the shoulder and torso plating. Expecting to feel steel meet flesh he thrust with the weight of his entire body, trying to cut through padding, muscle, possibly bone. He felt the blade slice through air as he stumbled forwards, the lack of resistance throwing off his footing. 

The Warrior’s chest slammed into the Guardian’s chestplate, rattling his teeth and knocking his hands from their grip on his sword. He bounced backwards, the mud beneath his feet betraying him and sending him sprawling. He could feel his heartbeat in his ears as he fumbled about for purchase, desperate to get back to his feet. There was no chance. His sword still lodged in the Guardian’s underarm, the monster stood over him, sword raised and readied. “How…” the Warrior sighed as the great sword came swinging down.

Gathered at the edge of Town, the villagers waited, gazing out at the Tower on the Hill, silently watching over them like a grim prison guard. At last they saw the glow. It pierced the fog, illuminating the Tower with an unnatural light.  The eldest among them understood. The cycle would continue. As the glow faded, eyes turned from the Tower to a young mother, cradling a child in her arms, his face pressed to her chest. The onlookers stared with wonder and resentment.

